Hi welcome back in this video we're going to be creating the authorization endpoint so that users can
come back to our application without having to enter a PIN code and all that stuff.
So as you can remember what we've done so far is got a request token and then censor to the users over
to Twitter so that they can press the button.
And then what should happen is that they should come back to our application with the verifier to verify
it is going to get sent to us.
So the user doesn't have to enter a PIN code the way we do that is we have to go into the Twitter apps
page.
So let's do that.
Let's go over to Safari and the here in apps not Twitter dot com.
Make sure to open up your app and in the Settings tab change the callback you are able to be this one
here hasted to be Colan for which last fall which lash 6:59 point or point or point one goal on 4 9
9 5 slash or slash Twitter.
So this has to be that the port that you're using in your application.
In my case I'm using 4 9 5 and then slash Auth. slash Twitter.
OK then we can go back to Python and create that endpoint.
So app route off Twitter.
And then we create a method that is going to be run when we access that endpoint.
Remember that
and I'm just going to return.
We are here because now we're going to be very find that it does work.
So let's press play go there.
And now we're going to go over to loggin Twitter and whether it is going to do is it's going to redirect
us to Twitter.
And as you can see we are in the process of redirection and we're here now.
So what has happened so far is we have arrived at this point in our app.
We've executed this code here.
We've got the request token and we've stored that in the session and then we've got redirected to the
Twitter you RL.
So we're here now when we press the button if we've saved our preferences in Twitter we should be able
to go back to our app and indeed we can see there that we're here.
So we were redirected successfully drawn out you know what this method should do we have the request
Okan and I'm tell you we have the author verifier although we haven't seen it yet.
What should this method do now that we've called the request Okan and the oath very fine.
I'm sure you've got it.
This method has to get the access to can.
So the first thing to do is to see where the author verifier is.
Let's go back to Safari.
And as you can see this you were well up here has not only slash author slushed Twitter but it also
has a query string parameter which is auth token and it has another crimsoning parameter which is off
verifier and that has a bunch of numbers there that is the author verifier.
We're going to be using.
So let's go back to pide Champ and the first thing we have to do is get that off verifier out of the
query string.
Fortunately it is fairly simple to do with flask.
Let's create a variable I'm going to call it or the verifier file and the contents of the variable are
going to be request don't we have to import request.
So let's go up here.
From flask an import request and diyan is going to be request which is the incoming request to our application
.
So one or seven put up in one form and a five on Facebook or Twitter or the verifier equals blah blah
blah blah blah blah.
OK.
The request that is incoming to our server is when the user arrives at this endpoint information regarding
the request that they have done is in the request for the request.
A variable of flask.
What we have here is also a property called args and the args are the query string parameters.
So we can do request dot args don't get Auth. verify.
And when that's going to do is extract the value of the author verifier and put it inside this variable
then the next thing we want to do is get the access token.
Fortunately inside our Twitter utils we already have something to get the access to Granites down here
called get access token and we know that that deals with getting it from Twitter image to parameters
which aren't request token and the or the very fine and we have both of those now.
So let's go back into our app and say access token equals get access token which we need to import so
make sure to go up here on from Twitter utilize import get access to it and it needs two parameters
as we know which our request to can and the or verifier the request organising the session so we can
just type session request token and that's going to retrieve that value from the session.
Remember the session is unique to the user.
So if two people log in at the same time they're going to have the correct request token for their cookie
and the other thing we need is the author verifier.
And that's it gets the access token and puts it in that variable and now the next thing to do is to
make sure that we create the users and store them in the database so they don't have to logon constantly
.
So let's go into the user Doppie file and have a look at what is there.
A user has an email first name and a last name as well as the token and or token secret.
We've got these two from the access token but we don't really have any of these three.
We don't have a way to get an e-mail the first name and the last name.
Now we could do that.
We could we could have a Web site at page that asks the user for those details.
Now we don't have one just now and it's not been in our best interest right now to do that.
It's not the focus of the section.
So instead of email first name a last name I'm going to use a screen name that's the Twitter user name
instead of those three properties.
Now we have to do is go and change the properties here in the user.
So instead of email first name a last name we're passing on a screen name and we are done doing self-taught
screen name equals screen name.
So each user object is going to have a screen name associated with them.
And I'm going to tell you how we can get that screen name in a moment when we insert into the users
table we're going to have to make sure that we're inserting the screen name column we have to create
that.
And now we only have three parameters.
So we only need 3 percent Essie's and that we don't need self-doubting e-mails out the first name and
last name the whole thing we need is a screen name.
Load from D-B by email.
We no longer have an email.
So instead of searching by email maybe we can search by screen name instead.
So I'm going to change the method name to be load from the screen name and we're going to be calling
that the parameter could be called the email if we wanted the parameter name doesn't matter.
But I'm going to rename it to be screen name and then I'm going to copy that and paste it down there
and down there as well.
So now what we are missing is this CLX the constructor here for the new user that we're creating.
It has an email first name and last name.
So we wanted to not have those.
Instead we're going to be deleting them and only accepting a screen name which is going to be the second
column of our tables is going to be user data one
and then the auth token is going to be the third column and the author can see that the fourth column
with the ID being the first column.
Now we should be go into PGE admin 3 and making sure this table exists within that schema.
So open up the sequel query editor and say grop table users and then create table users and we're going
to give it an idea which is going to be a serial type primary key and going quickly here because we
know all this stuff and it's going to be a screen name which is going to be text and or token which
is going to be text and an auth token secret which is going to be text as well.
Make sure you don't misspell any of these things that could be a bit problematic.
And then just press play and then create your table as we know and then we can close this down for now
.
OK so now the table exists this should work.
The last thing remaining is this repr method.
Make sure to change that to screen name as well and any place that we are using email first name or
last name that's no longer going to exist.
So for example the log in Doppie y file we created in the last few videos is no longer going to work
unless we change it to use this.
Let's go back to our app Doppie Y and create our user.
The first thing we want to do is make sure that our user doesn't exist already.
So let's say user equals user not load from the screen name we have to import user.
So let's go to the top and down hearsay from user import user so now we're going to be loading a user
by screen name.
And as we know let's go into the user Doppie file.
What that does is it gets a cursor from the connection from Pugel up to last and then it executes the
select and it puts that in saying the variable user data.
The first row and if user data does not it's not empty it's not not in.
So there is some user data then it's going to return a user object and if usually data is none.
Nothing was found then it's going to return None.
Which is the default for all Python methods.
The way we get the screen name is fortunately through the access token.
So the access token is a dictionary which has the screen name in it so we can just do that and then
we'll see if not the user if the user is none.
Then we want to create a new one is also a or equals user and he will put in access to open screen name
access token auth token access token auth token secret and none.
The idea is none it gets generated for us by.
So we don't need to put anything in there.
And finally use are not safe to D-B to make sure that it gets saved.
The next thing I'm going to do is save the screen name to the session just so we remember who is who
when they come back.
So session screen name equals user don't screen it.
And finally what I want to do is return the user screen name so that when the user authorizes us we
are able to see that it does work.
So I'm going to return user screen name.
Now there's a lot of stuff going on here.
I do appreciate that.
I'm hoping that you're pausing the video every now and then and going along and writing this down.
That would be the best thing to do.
We're going to send the users away to Twitter where they're going to verify them we're going to receive
back a redirection.
They usually get to come back with a or other verifier.
We're going to get to that or the very fire from the query string parameters using request dot args
.
We can't.
And then the parameter name which in this case is Aurthur verify and then we're going to use that and
the request token which we've saved in the session to get an access token and then we're going to load
the user by the screen name.
And if it doesn't exist then we're going to create a new one and we're going to save that to the beat
.
And finally we're going to send the screen name in a session and return the user's screen name.
And if we see the user screen name when we run through this it means that it worked before we continue
.
There is a small problem that I kind of hinted at I didn't really have but I mentioned barely on passing
and it would be fantastic if you realized the problem.
Before we continue.
But if you do not that's totally fine.
Have a moment to think about it and I'm going to restart the app and run through this.
OK we're going over to Twitter we are authorizing the app and I'm telling you this is not going to work
.
Hopefully you managed to figure out why not
We get internal server error.
The error code in hate DTP for internal 7 error is code 500 you can see that up here.
That's also an important area.
Happens quite often.
So we've got a server error.
We Something went wrong in our server.
Now that usually means that something failed in our code or we did something that we shouldn't have
done or we didn't do something that we should.
There are now two ways that we can figure this out.
The first way is to stop the app and use the debugger.
And if you have absolutely no idea why this may or may not be working this may be the best way to go
about.
Use a debugger.
Set a breakpoint in the beginning of this method.
The first line and then we're going to step through it and find out what the problem is.
Once we found out what the problem is I'm going to show you the other way which is a bit quicker but
it doesn't give us much information.
So let's go back into our app logon with Twitter and remember what has happened now is that we've gone
to this end point here.
We've created the request can we put that into session and then we've redirected to Twitter.
Twitter is going to redirect back to us in this point.
So as soon as I press the button our app should stop and should go into this line.
So let's press the button.
An hour it stops here which is great and we are now able to step over and go line by line seeing what
happened.
OK.
I would recommend that you select a calculator and evaluate to verify if things work as press next.
And now this thing here if we do evaluate it that's going to be a bit of a problem because we can only
request an access token once for a given verifier and request can.
So if we do evaluate this and then we press next that's going to evaluate it again which means the variable
isn't going to have a value.
I'll show you what I mean.
I'm going to select this code here that I'm going to press the calculator I can get evaluated to see
if it works.
And as you can see it does work I get back dictionary has the token secret and the auth token and it
also has a screen name at the end which is what we're using.
But now I've already used the verifier.
So when I press next remember I still haven't executed this line of code.
When I press next it's going to execute it again and assign the output of this to the access token.
But our access token is now empty because Twitter realizes we've used this already and it would be unsafe
to allow us to reuse that many times.
So instead the access token is empty.
And now we're going to fail here because the screen name isn't going to be a thing.
And as you can see I'm just in a press continues so we can see the error.
And here we see an error 500 error.
However it is an error of 500 but it's not the same error as before.
Because we know that we've messed up we didn't have a screen name in the access token because we used
it twice.
So what to do is put the breakpoint in the user.
We know these two lines work.
It just doesn't work twice but we know it works once.
So let's set the breakpoint there after we've got the access token and see what happens.
OK.
I'm going to go back to the log in with Twitter.
And this seems boring but it's essential for you to know how to debug and fix your application.
So now I should get stopped here.
But the access token is no longer empty.
Now it has stuff in it which is great.
So let's now run this one here and see what happens.
And there we have the error.
And you guys know this area already.
You know what this means.
And you know how to fix that error.
Well yes you should because we've encountered it a few times before.
It says none type object has no attributes.
Get can not just get corn and if I get connection.
Now surely you remember that this comes from our database stop why file it comes in fact from here.
What it's telling us is this doesn't have an attribute this.
So what is saying is there is none which is none.
We defined it as being none up there.
But we re we give it a new value down there when we run the initialize method.
What does this tell us that we didn't run the initialize method and indeed we didn't.
This database is never going to be initialized because we're never telling it to be initialized.
What I'm going to do is just press continue and then I get the error of 500.
But down here we are going to have to say database not initialize and then we are going to have to import
data.
So let's type from database import database at the top of the file and then it needs a few things like
the host which is local host that database which is learning the user which is passed us and the password
which is 1 2 3 4.
In my case although it may be different for you.
OK let's restart this debugger.
Go back here.
Go to logon with Twitter and then authorize the app.
And now we've got the breakpoint.
Let's see if that works.
And it's seeing non-time object is not scriptable.
OK.
We don't know what's going on right now.
So what are we going to do is go into that method and we can do that by pressing this icon there step
into when we press that in.
We're going to leave this Twitter off method and instead we're going to go into load from D-B by screen
name.
OK.
So we are stepping through with the cursor object.
Now we're going to execute the connection user data is numb.
And here is a small error that when done checked essentially if not user data that means user data is
none.
So if user data is none which it does then we're going to go in there but we cannot get Elliman number
one element number two element number three of user data because it is none.
So what we wanted was if user data.
OK let's now press continue restart and go through it again and see if that fixes it.
Logon to Twitter.
Well there's the app
which should now stop here.
So now when we run this again this should not work.
It is none which is correct.
We don't currently have a user in our database.
So we not a user we we're going to go in there.
We're going to be creating a user.
And now we're going to see that the data database we're going to set it in the session.
And finally we're going to return it so I'm going to just press continue which is the green button and
go back to Safari and there we have my Twitter username now and getting the Twitter username wasn't
really the main aim of this video although it was.
But really the most important part is for you to use a debugger learn about fixing your errors find
the errors and understand what your program is doing.
It's important that you start thinking like a computer in order to be able to fix problems that will
arise.
And it does take expedience it takes time.
It's not easy but you can do it.
And the the main the best way to do that is by practicing.
So hopefully you found it OK to bear with the couple of errors that we threw in there.
And I actually think that this era there is not something that you'll have in your code.
But it was there now anyway so hopefully you've learned something.
And now we can proceed over to the next few videos where we're going to be looking at some more of this
stuff.
And also I did mention that we show you the easier way to find out these arrows and you can try that
yourselves.
You can just type in debug equals true down here.
After the port and that will give you a bit more information.
When something does go wrong.
So we're going to leave that there.
And you can use that and throughout your development as well it'll help you.
Yes that's it.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the very next video.